ÊFontFont 15 Release Notes																																															September, 1995Within a span of five years FontShop InternationalÕs (FSI) FontFontª library has grown to be the largest collection of new computer designed typefaces. In addition to finely manicured text and headline faces (FF Meta+ª, FF Scalaª, FF Balanceª, FF Thesisª, FF Angieª) there are also trendy symbol collections (FF Care Packª, FF Dingbatsª) that create their own sensation. As well as the well known dirty typewriter face FF Trixieª, the random font FF Beowolfª, the FF Instant Typesª and the series FF Dirty Facesª. There are presently over 700 FontFontsª available and in September FSI presents for the fifteenth time a new group of releases. Below you will discover more about Ònew and oldÓ FontFontª designers and their latest faces:FF Baukastenª, FF Bullª, FF Clairª, FF DINª, FF Engineª, FF Graffioª, FF Liantª and the latest in the series of Dirty Facesª No. 5.FF Baukastenª from Alessio Leonardi (Italy)Half a year ago Alessio Leonardi began his life story as follows: ÒI was born, so  to say, in Florence on a cold day in July.  A very cold one. I canÕt say IÕm cool, though I freeze quite easily. As  a child I decided to become really famous, but I was poor, really poor. Poor people have to play football to be famous, but IÕm lazy and I prefer to watch it on t.v. One day, it was in September, I met a girl on the the street: She was 24, I wasÉÓAnd today Leonardi continues the story: ÒÉ and then I understood that was not the kind of life I would like to have. So I went to Berlin and began a new adventure Ð about that I can tell you at the moment nothing moreÉÓ Instead he informed us that he presently prefers to play chess and dance salsa with his girlfriend Priska. Alessio Leonardi has published the FontFont packages FF Priskaª, FF Alessioª (FF Cavolfioreª, FF Cavolfioreª Figure, FF Coltelloª, FF Coltelloª Figure, FF Mulinexª) und recently FF Letterineª. His newest typeface is FF Baukastenª. Literally translated as Òconstruction kitÓ, Leonardi describes it as an Òearthquaked bitmapfontÓ. The six family members are able to be combined in layers, so that you have unlimited possibilities to play with forms and colors. YouÕll be amazed with what you can do!ÊFF 9472 Mac + PCFF Baukastenª (One, Two, Three, Four, Five, Six)FF Bullª from John Critchley (Great Britain)The 27 year old graphic designer John Critchley graduated from Manchester Polytechnic in 1990 and since joining Neville BrodyÕs ÒResearch StudiosÓ has worked on a variety of projects including graphics for the Spanish fashion label ÒArmand BasiÓ and the German cultural centre ÒHaus der Kulturen der WeltÓ. A significant part of his work is publishing the experimental typography publication FUSE which FSI brings out every three months. As part of FUSE Critchley has designed the faces F Mutoidª and F Ollieª, his addition to the FontFont library is the collection of childrenÕs handwriting, FF ChildÕs Playª.His latest typeface is called FF Bullª, named after the popular British rubber stamp collection for children: John Bull. And this is how the face was created Ð by digitizing the scans of a set of rubber stamp prints. FF Bullª is an authentic reproduction of a rubber stamp type set, inked to different degrees to provide six distinctive samples. They are all fully interchangeable and can be combined or overlayed to provide even more variations. Some of these weights contain special Òdirty-keysÓ which can be used to customise them still further!ÊÊFF 9473 Mac + PCFF Bullª (Under-inked, Inked, Semi-inked, Over-inked, Outline, Double)FF Clairª from Ingrid Liche (Germany)Since 1970 the designer Ingrid Liche (53) has been working as a freelancer in Gšggingen, Southern Germany. The focus of her work has been on the advertising and packaging of natural medicines and cosmetics. Specifically for this work she developed several of her own alphabets, most of which express an anthroposophic style. The most famous of which is her face FF Liantª which she designed for the cosmetic company Weleda (see more information under FF Liantª below). Although Liche admired several typefaces, she was always searching for a new font, one that was extremely legible, but also radiated elegance and softness. For the new private clinic ÒParacelsus-Spital RichterswilÓ in Switzerland she first created a face just for the words for the name of the hospital. The directors of the clinic were so impressed by the sign that they commissioned her to complete the rest of the alphabet. Thus, the birth of Clair Medium! This has now developed into the 5 weight family of FF Clairª.ÊFF 9466 Mac + PC FF Clairª (Light, Regular, Medium, Bold, Black)FF DINª from Albert-Jan Pool (The Netherlands)Albert-Jan Pool  was born July 9th, 1960 in Amsterdam. He studied in The Hague at the Royal Academy of Arts. From 1987 to 1991 he was the Director of Type at Scangraphic in Germany. And from 1991 to 1994 he was the Manager of Type Design and Production at URW in Hamburg.After re-working and expanding OCR-B to include three weights for FontFont 14 (FF OCR-Fª), Pool began working on his second FontFont, the famous DIN-Mittelschrift. This face has not only dominated the traffic signs and public buildings in Germany, but with its technical orientation and straigtforwardness it has also found many friends internationally. FF DINª  has been expanded to a family of five weights. For each weight there is an Alternate cut with old style figures, circular i-dots and full points and oblique terminals on some characters Ð Pool himself considers this ÒAutobahnÓ face to be Òprobably the most non-designed typeface ever madeÓ.ÊFF 9467 Mac + PC FF DINª (Light, Regular, Medium, Bold, Black, Light Alternate, Regular Alternate, Medium Alternate, Bold Alternate, Black Alternate)FF Engineª from Alex Scholing (The Netherlands)The 33 year old Alex Scholing is a newcomer in the world of type design. At the  Academy of Arts in Arnhem he studied Industrial und Grafic Design. After graduating in  1989 he worked three years in advertising. Today he earns his living as a free lance graphic designer. He dreams of vacations he canÕt afford, travelling on motorcycles he canÕt afford either. According to Scholing ÒFF Engineª is an attempt to make a good, solid, general purpose typeface with as little effort as possible. The first thing I did to reduce complications was do away with the contrast in the letters, which means FF Engineª  is a so-called monoline (well, almost; try to find how I cheated...). To enhance legibility I added small serif-like bulges at the ends of the stems.Ó ÊFF 9468 Mac + PC FF Engineª (Regular, Italic, Bold, Caps, Regular Lining Figures, Italic LF, Bold LF)FF Graffioª from Alessio Leonardi (Italy)Alessio Leonardi was born in 1965 in Florence. As he tells it: ÒAs  a child I decided to become really famous, but I was poor, really poor. Poor people have to play football to be famous, but IÕm lazy and I prefer to watch it on t.v. One day, it was in September, I met a girl on the street, she was 24. I understood, that what I had experienced up to now was not the kind of life I would like to have. So I went to Berlin and began a new adventure Ð about that I can tell you at the moment nothing moreÉÓ In addition to being a type designer Leonardi lists chef, philosopher, designer, homebody, juggler, typographer, illustrator, translator, politician, scientist among others as his professions.  Otherwise, when Alessio is not designing type he is studying comics and reading philosophy books. ÒWhen I donÕt design type I love to watch the types I designed. When I donÕt design type IÕm almost always hungry, so I eat avocados.ÓÒFF Graffioª is a nervous typeface: I did it after I went to the cinema to see Natural Born KillersÉ I love cats, but IÕm allergic to them.ÓÊFF 9469 Mac + PC FF Graffioª (Difensivo, Offensivo and Visivo)FF Liantª from Ingrid Liche (Germany)Since 1970 the designer Ingrid Liche (53) has been working as a freelancer in Gšggingen, Southern Germany. The focus of her work has been on the advertising and packaging of natural medicines and cosmetics. Specifically for this work she developed several of her own alphabets, most of which express an anthroposophic style. For the German-Ethiopian relief organization she created €thiopica Ð it has Latin characters, yet is based on an Ethiopian style of writing. Other faces she developed as corporate identity faces for a medical association, the Camphill Movement and a French insurance group. France is her most favorite vacation spot, where she takes her dogs whenever she gets a chance. In 1976 Ingrid Liche began designing Liant Medium for the packaging of the natural cosmetic company Weleda AG in Germany. Since then this face has defined the corporate identity of Weleda worldwide and because of this companyÕs prestige, the look to the entire natural cosmetic and biologically oriented industry. Because of a split of opinions in the international company  in 1994, the mother company in Switzerland decided to introduce a new house face; thereby giving up the brand name recognition that had been established over twenty yearsÉ Because of the turn in events and since Liche still owned the rights to Liant, she decided to distribute the face exclusively over FontShop International. She re-digitized the font, adding several ligatures and expanding the face to a three weight family. The most noticable characteristic of the font is its lively lines, the forms for which are taken from nature. Within the individual characters there is an exchange of sinking and rising points, which are connected by taut curves.ÊFF 9470 Mac + PC FF Liantª (Regular, Medium, Bold)FF Dirty Facesª 5 from John Siddle (Great Britain), Fabian Rottke (Germany) and Fabrizio Schiavi (Italy)Too radical for the FontFont library, too harmless for FUSEª: those are the limits for the FontFont series FF Dirty Facesª. Under this term FontShop International (FSI) releases every three months the most unusual contributions to this current trend of Òdigitally filtered alphabetsÓ - electronically processed faces. They are the children of MTV and Super Mario, they feel most at home in the aesthetic circle of ugliness. Especially young adults, who hardly find time to read, must be addressed with new tricks relating to the written word. This is a job forÉ FF Dirty Facesª! The new FontFont series offers every designer an immediate grasp on a palette of demented characters; letters which were chosen under the guardianship of the FSI Type Board.In this pack of Dirty Facesª there are three pairs of faces. Under the name FF Boomshankerª (Light und Solid) appear the first two faces from the 23 year old London designer John Siddle.  ÒI have been born kicking and screaming into the world of type designÉ and I want my mum!Ó is SiddleÕs reaction to his premiere. He studied Visual Communication at Middlesex University and it was there that he designed Boomshanker.  It was the assignment to Òchoose your favourite typeface and do a poster!Ó - yawn. He decided not to be a sheep and create his own font, much to the tutorÕs disapproval. Thank god for Rotring stencils. SiddleÕs hobbies?  ÒSitting in front of the Mac for hours on end going blind, but Pin the Tail on the Donkey has also always been a particular favourite of mine.ÓÊFabian Rottke (FF Ekttorª, FF Assuriª) from Essen finished his studies in Communication Design this year in July. The basis for both of these FF Dirtyfaxª fonts  (Regular und Heavy) was the Xerox 7010 Photocopier, using  high sensitive thermo-paper.ÊFabrizio  Schiavi  was born in 1971 in PontedellÕOlio (Piacenza, Italy). He graduated from the Istituto Statale dÕArte of Parma in 1990. He had a bit of experience in small graphic design studios before beginning to work as a freelancer. In 1993 he extended his knowledge in lettering and sent his first materials to FontShop International and other typeface houses. To date of his typefaces have been published, including FF Trade 01ª (FF Dirty Facesª 2), FF 9600ª, FF 0069ª (FF Dirty Facesª 4) and FF Steelª Ð and he has recently drawn several more.  When Schiavi is not drawing faces he mostly like to play and walk with Bruce, his dog. His newest contributions to the FF Dirty Facesª  series are called FF GeŠb Oilª und FF Mode 01ª.According to Schiavi: ÒThe first finds its origins in grunge music. The assonance in the drawing of FF GeŠb Oilª matches the assonance of grunge music. The music of Depeche Mode is the starting point of FF Mode 01ª. The symbols of Mode 01 cannot tell us anything, but the the users eye perceives sensations like the ear captures sensations from a song without words. The other characters are often indefinable objects. They are chosen for their Ôsonic weightÕ, for the presence of black in the letter and for the shape of the object drawn. Every character in Mode 01 appears like a bass note that you can isolate from the entire sound context.ÓÊÊÊFF 9471 Mac + PC FF Dirty Facesª 5 (FF Boomshankerª Light, FF Boomshankerª Solid, FF Dirtyfaxª Regular, Dirtyfaxª Heavy, FF GeŠb Oilª, FF Mode 01ª)